A set of rules to communicate
Just like rules of a spoken language
7 Layers

Layer 1 : Physical
Actual physical connections
Cables, or wireless (wi-fi)
L1 devices : Cables, repeaters

Layer 2 : Data link
After physical connection, data needs to be put out for sending
One singular "hop" in data transmission
MAC (Media Access Control) addresses of L2 devices used for these hops (12 hex digits, 48 bits)
The "physical" address of the device. Hardcoded into the device itself
L2 devices : NIC (Network Interface Card) or Wifi Access Card, Switches

Layer 3 : Network
Data transmission to an end host may require multiple "hops". This layer makes sure end-to-end transmission.
ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) ties L2 and L3 together
L3 devices : Routers, hosts, anything with IP address

Layer 4 : Transport
One single host may have multiple apps sending and receiving data. Need to distinguish these data streams.
Different addressing scheme : TCP or UDP. Called ports. 0-65535
Servers listen to data on a predefined port. Clients choose a random port to make a connection.
Servers return data to the same port.

Layer 5,6,7 : Application
An application on the host needs to put data together for all different layers to work. 
Putting data together - encapsulation. Unpacking it - de-encapsulation

Encapsulation : 
First, data from the application is given a L4 header : Sending and receiving port addresses (TCP or UDP) - Segment
Then, L3 header : Sending and receiving IP addreses - Packet
L2 header : Sending and receiving MAC addresses - Frame
For each layer, the previous layers' headers are just data to be sent. It doesn't care.

De-encapsulation :
L2 header : check if MAC address is this one. If yes, send to next layer
L3 header : check if IP address is this one. If yes, send to next layer.
L4 header : check for port and send data to that port.

Each device and protocol operates at different layers.
OSI model is just a model, no strict rules. Exceptions exist
Example - ARP is neither L2 nor L3.	